# (PART) 10 April 2017 {-}

# Computing setup
## Bookdown

I'm creating this notebook in [bookdown](https://bookdown.org). I ran into a number of poorly documented issues.

- To use the build tab, you need to go into the Rproj file and set build type to "Website." In addition, you need to make sure that the lines `knit: "bookdown::render_book"`,  `site: "bookdown::bookdown_site"`, and `output:  bookdown::gitbook` are in the yaml header (either in index.Rmd or, presumably, _bookdown.yml)
- I'm trying to suppress the chapter/section numbers, and only show top-level stuff in the toc. There's a proposed solution [here](https://github.com/bookdown/Bookdown.Bookdown/issues/47) but that doesn't seem to be working (I don't know where to put the json file referenced there).
- I'd hoped not to have subsections display in the sidebar. Sometimes the subsections only show in the currently selected chapter, but that seems not to be consistent behavior.

Individual content files should be named with the date, in format yyyy-mm-dd.Rmd. The first line should also include the date, in the format, e.g., `# (PART) 7 April 2017 {-}`. This creates a "part" with the date, and all subjects within the day's work can be top-level headers.

As the notebook gets longer I'll want to start making good use of `preview_chapter()`, but it does not (by default) display the page. I'll need to figure out how to get that working...

I'll also want to set up a template file, especially once I decide what needs to go into the preamble for R code execution.

I need to look through the bookdown documentation to see what else I can set in `_bookdown.yml`. A good place to start is the [Configuration](https://bookdown.org/yihui/bookdown/configuration.html) chapter of *Authoring Books with R Markdown*. It may be that I can put the index.Rmd file in the project root, and the entries in a subdirectory specifed by `rmd_subdir`, and have the working directory for the Rmd files be the project root.

Just for grins, let's see what the working directory is set to:

```r
getwd()
```

```
## [1] "/Users/Bkendall/Documents/github-bitbucket/InvasionHet/notebook"
```

* With a "standard" setup (the index.Rmd being in `notebook`) it gives the notebook directory.
* After moving `index.Rmd` and `_bookdown.yml` to the project root, and adding `rmd_subdir: true` to the latter, I get the project root as the working directory. This is good! However, it appears that this will lead to [Rmd files in *all* subdirectories getting included](https://github.com/rstudio/bookdown/issues/242). Unless I can use regular in the `rmd_files` option this will be a dealbreaker eventually. I haven't found any way to do the latter.

Let me try moving everything back to the notebook directory and applying setwd():

```r
setwd("..")
getwd()
```

```
## [1] "/Users/Bkendall/Documents/github-bitbucket/InvasionHet"
```
This seems to work.


I won't want R code from old entries re-running, not just for time but because data and functions may have changed. I think the key here is to:

a. Use the [K-M approach](https://bookdown.org/yihui/bookdown/new-session.html) by putting `new_session: yes` in `_bookdown.yml`
b. Set cache on for everything (i.e., in the knitr options set in the index file).

**But this is incompatible with having Rmd files in subdirectories!!!!**

In principle, it may save compilation time to have files without R code simply be md files. But it seems that only Rmd files are searched by default; md files would need to be added by hand to `rmd_files`.

## ProjectTemplate
I also set up the directory structure using [ProjectTemplate](http://projecttemplate.net). The one tricky thing is that Rmd files in this notebook (and in the reports directory as well) may have to chdir to the root, which might be tricky. If I keep the index file in the root as described above then this shouldn't be a problem.
